README.md, before:

[![CI](https://github.com/de-it-krachten/ansible-role-hosts/workflows/CI/badge.svg?event=push)](https://github.com/de-it-krachten/ansible-role-hosts/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)


# ansible-role-hosts

Register all hosts within the inventory in /etc/hosts


## Platforms

Supported platforms

- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7<sup>1</sup>
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8<sup>1</sup>
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9<sup>1</sup>
- CentOS 7
- RockyLinux 8
- OracleLinux 8
- AlmaLinux 8
- AlmaLinux 9
- Debian 10 (Buster)
- Debian 11 (Bullseye)
- Ubuntu 18.04 LTS
- Ubuntu 20.04 LTS
- Ubuntu 22.04 LTS
- Fedora 35
- Fedora 36

Note:
<sup>1</sup> : no automated testing is performed on these platforms

## Role Variables
### defaults/main.yml
<pre><code>
# Adapter to retrieve IP from
hosts_adapter: default
</pre></code>



## Example Playbook
### molecule/default/converge.yml
<pre><code>
- name: sample playbook for role 'hosts'
  hosts: all
  vars:
  tasks:
    - name: Include role 'hosts'
      include_role:
        name: hosts

- import_playbook: converge-post.yml
</pre></code>

Commit message:

feat: add support for custom DNS server

README.md, after:

[![CI](https://github.com/de-it-krachten/ansible-role-hosts/workflows/CI/badge.svg?event=push)](https://github.com/de-it-krachten/ansible-role-hosts/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)


# ansible-role-hosts

Configures /etc/hosts with custom records and/or configures the system to use custom DNS servers


## Platforms

Supported platforms

- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7<sup>1</sup>
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8<sup>1</sup>
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9<sup>1</sup>
- CentOS 7
- RockyLinux 8
- OracleLinux 8
- AlmaLinux 8
- AlmaLinux 9
- Debian 10 (Buster)
- Debian 11 (Bullseye)
- Ubuntu 18.04 LTS
- Ubuntu 20.04 LTS
- Ubuntu 22.04 LTS
- Fedora 35
- Fedora 36
- Alpine 3

Note:
<sup>1</sup> : no automated testing is performed on these platforms

## Role Variables
### defaults/main.yml
<pre><code>
# Adapter to retrieve IP from
hosts_adapter: default

# Type of name resolving to configure
# hosts = /etc/hosts, dns = /etc/resolv.conf or both
hosts_mode: hosts

# list of name servers
hosts_dns_servers: []
</pre></code>



## Example Playbook
### molecule/default/converge.yml
<pre><code>
- name: sample playbook for role 'hosts'
  hosts: all
  vars:
  tasks:
    - name: Include role 'hosts'
      include_role:
        name: hosts
</pre></code>
